The joint session will come to
order, the chair appointed
members
. The gentleman from Virginia,
the gentleman from Morgan, the
gentleman from Oklahoma, Mr.
Langford. The gentleman from
Kansas, Ms. Higgins, the
gentleman from North Carolina,
Ms. Fox, the gentleman from --
the gentle men from Ireland, the
gentleman from South Carolina,
the gentleman from California,
the gentleman from New York,
Mr. Crowley. The gentleman from
New York, Mr. Israel, and the
gentleman from Connecticut, Ms.
Delaro.
>> At the direction of the body
appoints the following senators
as members of the committee on
the part of the Senate to escort
the president
of the United States into the
House chamber. The Senator. from
Nevada, Mr. Reid. Senator. from
Mr.  --
Mr. Schumer, Senator. from
Washington, Ms. Murray, Senator.
from cauliflower  -- senator
from Michigan, Senator. from
Alaska,  Senator. from Kentucky,
Senator. from  Texas, Senator.
from South Dakota,  Senator.
from Missouri,  and the Senator.
from Wyoming,
.
>> The members of the committee
would like to approve the
chamber doors through the lobby.
Mr. Speaker, as acting Dean of
the Atlantic floor.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Mr. Speaker, the Chief Justice
and associate Justices of the
Supreme Court.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
[ Applause ]
>> Mr. Speaker, the
President's Cabinet.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Mister Speaker , but President
of the United States.
>> [ Applause ]
[ Applause ]
>>
Members of Congress,
I have the high privilege and
distinct honor of presenting to
you the President of the United
States.
>> Thank you, thank you.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Thank you so much. Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Mister Speaker , Mr. Vice
President,  members of Congress,
my fellow Americans
, today
, America, a teacher spent extra
time with a student who needed
it and did her part to lift
America's graduation rate to the
highest levels in more than
three decades.
An entrepreneur flipped on the
lights in a tech
start up and did her part to
add to the more 8 million new
jobs are businesses have created
over the past four years.
>> [ Applause ]
>> On autoworker
fine-tuned some of the best
most fuel-efficient cars in the
world and did his part to help
America win itself off of
foreign oil. A farmer prepared
for the spring after the
strongest five-year stretch of
farm exports in our history.
A rural doctor gave a young
child the first prescription to
treat asthma that his mother
could afford.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
MM took the bus home from his
graveyard shift, bone tired, but
dreaming big dreams for his
son. And a tightknit community,
all across America, fathers,
mothers will talk in their kids,
put an arm around their spouse
, remember fallen comrades, and
give thanks for being home from
a war that after 12 long years
is finally coming to an end.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Tonight, this chamber speaks
with one voice to the people we
represent. It is you, our
citizens, who make the state of
our union strong.
>> [ Applause ]
>> And here are the results of
your efforts. The lowest
unemployment rate in over five
years, a rebounding housing work
it
-- market, a manufacturing
sector adding jobs for the first
time since the 1990s, more oil
produced,
more oil produced at home then
we buy from the rest of the
world, the first -- happened in
nearly 20 years.
Our deficits, cut by more than
half. And for the first time
, for the first time in over a
decade, business leaders around
the world have to cleared
that China is no longer the
world's number one place to
invest, America is.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
That's why I believe this can
be a breakthrough year for
America. After five years of
grit and determined effort, the
United States is better
positioned for the 21st century
than any other nation on earth.
The question for everyone in
this chamber, running through
every decision we make this year
is whether we are going to help
or hinder this progress.
For several years now, this
time has been consumed by a
argument over the proper size of
the federal government. It is
an important debate. One that
dates back to our very founding.
When that debate prevents us
from carrying out even the most
basic functions of our
democracy, when our differences
shut down government
or threaten the full faith and
credit of the United States,
then we are not doing right by
the American people.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Now, as President, I'm
committed to making Washington
work better and rebuilding the
trust of the people who sent us
here.  I believe that most of
you are, too. Last month, due to
the work of the Congress,
we undid some of the severe
cuts to priorities like
education. Nobody got everything
they wanted and we can still do
more to invest in this
country's future while bringing
down our deficit in a balanced
way, but the budget compromise
should
lead us to a focus on creating
new jobs, not creating new
crisis. And in the coming months
[ Applause ]
, in the coming months, let's
see where else we can make
progress together. Let's make
this a year of action. That's
what most Americans want. For
all of us in this chamber to
focus on their lives, their
hopes, their aspirations.
And what I believe unites the
people of this nation,
regardless of race, region or
party, young or old, rich or
poor, is the simple profound
belief in opportunity for all.
The notion that if you work hard
and take responsibility, you
can get ahead in America.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Let's face it, that belief has
suffered some serious blows.
For more than three decades,
even before the great recession
hit,
massive shifts in technology
and global competition had
eliminated a lot of good
middle-class jobs and weaken the
economic foundations that
families depend on.
Today, after four years of
economic growth, corporate
profits and stock prices have
rarely been higher and those at
the top have never done better.
But, average wages have
thoroughly botched -- budged,
and
inequality has deepened, upper
mobility has installed. The cold
hard fact is that even in the
midst of recovery,
too many Americans are working
more than ever just to get by,
let alone to get ahead. And too
many still are not working at
all.
>> [ Applause ]
>> So, our job is to reverse
these trends
. It won't happen right away,
and we won't agree on
everything. But what I offer
tonight is a set of concrete
practical proposals to speed up
growth
, strengthen the middle class
and build new ladders of
opportunity into the middle
class.
Some require congressional
action. And I'm eager to work
with all of you.
But, America does not stand
still and neither will I. So,
wherever and whenever, I can
take steps without legislation
to expand opportunity for more
American families, that is what
I'm going to do.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
As usual, our first lady sets a
good example.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Michelle's  Let's Mover -- Move
Partnership with schools and
businesses has
brought down the child obesity
rate for the first time in 30
years, and achievement that will
improve lives and reduce
healthcare costs for decades to
come. The joining forces
aligning, Michele and Biden,
have watched
the training of over 400,000
veterans and military spouses.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Taking a page from the
playbook,
the White House organized a
college opportunity Summit were
already 150 universities,
businesses, nonprofits have made
concrete commitments to reduce
inequality and access to higher
education and health every
hard-working kid go to college
and succeed when they get -- and
across the country.
We are partnering with mayors,
governors and state legislature
on issues from homelessness to
marriage equality. The point is,
there are millions of Americans
outside of Washington who are
tired of stale political
arguments and are moving this
country forward.
They believe, and I believe,
that here in America, our
success should depend not on --
of birth, but the strength of
our work ethic and scope of our
dreams. That is what drew our
forebears here.
That's how the daughter of a
factory worker is CEO of
America's largest automaker.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
How the son of a barkeep is
speaker of the house.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
How the son of a single mom can
be president of the greatest
nation on earth.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Opportunity is who we are.
And a defining project of our
generation must be to restore
that promise. We know where to
start. The best measure of
opportunity is access to a good
job.
With the economy picking up
speed, companies today intend to
hire more people this year and
over half of big manufacturers
say they are thinking of in
sourcing jobs from abroad.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
So, let's make that decision
easier for more companies.
Both Democrats and Republicans
have argued that our tax code is
riddled with wasteful,
complicated loopholes that
punish businesses investing here
and reward companies that keep
profits abroad. Let's split
that equation and work together
to close those loopholes
and those who invented the ship
jobs overseas and lower tax
rates for businesses to create
jobs right here at home.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Moreover, we can take the money
we save from this transition to
tax reform
to create jobs, rebuilding our
roads, upgrading our ports,
unclogging our commutes, because
in today's global economy,
first class jobs gravitate to
first-class infrastructure.
We will need Congress to
protect more than 3 million jobs
by finessing transportation and
water waste bills this summer.
>> [ Applause ]
>> That can happen. But, I will
act on my own
2/bureaucracy and streamline
the permitting process for key
projects so we can get more
instructional workers on the job
as fast as possible.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
We also have a chance right now
to beat other countries in the
race for the next wave of
high-tech manufacturing jobs.
And my administration has
launched two hubs for high-tech
manufacturing in Raleigh, North
Carolina and
Ohio where we have connected
businesses to universities who
can help
America lead the world in
advanced technologies. Tonight,
I'm announcing that we will
watch this more this year.
Bipartisan bills in both houses
could double the number of these
hubs
and the jobs they create. So,
get those bills to my desk. Put
more Americans back to work.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Let's do more to help the
entrepreneurs and small-business
owners to create most of the
jobs in America.
Over the past five years, my
administration has made more
loans to small business owners
than any other and when 98% of
our exporters are small
businesses, new trade
partnerships with Europe and the
Asia-Pacific will help them
create even more jobs.
We need to work together on
tools like bipartisan trade
promotion authority
to protect our workers, to
protect our environment and open
new markets to new goods,
stamps made in the USA.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Listen, China and Europe are
standing on the sidelines and
neither should we.
We know that the nation that
goes all in on innovation today
will own the global economy
tomorrow.
This is an edge America cannot
surrender. Federally funded
research
helped lead to the ideas and
inventions behind Google and
smart phones
and that's why Congress should
undo the damage done by last
year's cuts to basic research,
so we can unleash the next Great
American discovery.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
There are entire industries to
be built, based on vaccines that
stay ahead of the drug
resistant but areas or paperthin
material that is stronger than
steel.
And let's pass a pound reform
bill that allows our businesses
to stay focused on innovation,
not costly and needless
litigation.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Now, one of the biggest factors
in bringing more jobs back is
our commitment to American
energy.
The all of the above energy
strategy I announced a few years
ago is working and today,
America is closer to energy
independence that we have been
in decades.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
One of the reasons why is
natural gas.
If extracted safely, it's the
bridge fuel that can power our
economy with less of the carbon
pollution that causes climate
change.
Businesses plan to invest
almost $100 billion in new
factories that use natural gas.
I will cover a -- to help
states get those factories
built and put folks to work in
this Congress can help by
putting people to work building
fueling stations that ship more
cars and trucks from foreign oil
to American natural gas.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Meanwhile, my administration
will keep working with the
industry to sustain production
and jobs growth while
strengthening profession
dust protection of our air, our
waters, our communities.
And I will use my authority to
protect more of our pristine
federal lands for future
generations.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Now, it's not just oil and
natural gas production that is
blooming. We are becoming a
global leader in solar as well.
Every 4 min., another American
home or business goes solar.
Every panel pounded into place
by a worker whose job cannot be
outsourced
, let's continue that progress
with a smarter tax policy that
stops giving $4 billion a year
to fossil fuel industries that
donated so we can invest more in
fuels and the futures that do.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
And even as we have increased
energy production, we have
partnered with businesses,
builders and local communities
to reduce the energy we consume
. When we rescued our
automakers, for example, we
worked with them to set higher
fuel efficiency standards for
our cars. In the coming months,
I will build on that success by
setting new standards for our
trucks so we can keep driving
down oil imports and what we pay
at the pump. And
taken together, our energy
policy is creating jobs and
leading to a cleaner, safer
planet.
Over the past eight years, the
United States has reduced our
total carbon pollution more than
any other nation on earth.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
But we have to act with more
urgency.
Because a changing climate is
already harming Western
communities struggling with
drought and coastal cities
dealing with floods.
That is why I directed my
administration to work with
states, utilities and others to
set new standards on the amount
of carbon pollution our power
plants are allowed to dump into
the air.
The shift to a cleaner energy
economy won't happen overnight
, and it will require some tough
choices along the way. But the
debate is settled. Climate
change is a fact. And when our
children's children look up in
the eye and ask if we did all
that they could to lead to a
more sables and stable
world with new sources of
energy, I want to be able to
say, yes we did.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
[ Cheering ]
Finally,
if we are serious about
economic growth, it's time to
heed the call of business
leaders, labor leaders, faith
leaders, law enforcement and fix
our broken innovation system.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Republicans and Democrats
have acted and I know that
members of both parties in the
house want to do the same.
Independent economists say
immigration reform will grow our
economy and shrink deficits by
almost $1 trillion in the next
two decades, and for good
reason. When people come here to
fulfill their dreams, to study,
contribute to our culture,
they make our country a more
attractive place for businesses
to locate and create jobs for
everybody. So let's get
immigration reform done this
year.
>> [ Applause ]
>> Let's get it done.
>> It's time.
>> [ Applause ]
>> The ideas I have outlined so
far can speed up growth and
create more jobs. But in this
randomly
changing economy, we have to
make sure that every American
has the skills to fill those
jobs. The good news is, we know
how to do it.
Two years ago, as the auto
industry came roaring back,
-- opened up a manufacturing
firm in Detroit.
She knew that Ford needed parts
for the best-selling truck in
America and she knew how to make
those parts. She just needed
the workforce
. So, she dialed up what we call
in America job center
, places where folks can walk in
to get the help or training
they need to find a new job or a
better job. She was flooded
with new works.
And today, the Detroit
manufacturing system has more
than 700 employees. And what
Andra
and her employees experienced
is how it should be for every
employee and every job seeker.
So tonight, I have asked Vice
President  Biden to lead on
across-the-board reform
on training programs to make
sure they have one mission,
trained Americans with the
skills employers need and match
them to good jobs that need to
be filled right now.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
That means more on-the-job
training and more
apprenticeships
that such a young worker on a
trajectory for life. It means
connecting companies to
community colleges that can help
design training to fill their
specific needs. And if Congress
wants to help, you can
concentrate funding unproven
programs that connect more ready
to work Americans with ready to
be filled jobs.
I'm also convinced we can help
Americans return to the
workforce faster by reforming
unemployment insurance so that
it's more effective in today's
economy. But first,
this Congress needs to restore
the unemployment insurance you
just let expire 41.6 million
people. --
for 1.6 million people.
>> [ Applause ]
>> [ Cheering ]
>> Let me tell you why. Macy
DeMars is a mug
-- mother of two young boys.
She has been
unemployed since a teenager,
she has never collected
unemployment benefits, she had
paid her taxes
, MA, she and her husband used
their life savings to buy their
first home. A week later, budget
cuts claimed the jobs that she
loved.
Last month, when their
unemployment insurance was cut
off, she sat down and wrote me a
letter, the kind I get every
day.
We are the face of the
unemployment crisis, she wrote.
I am not dependent on the
government, our country depends
on people like us to build
careers. Contribute to society.
Care about our neighbors.
I'm confident that in time, I
will find a job, I will pay my
taxes,
and we will raise our children
in their own home in the
community we love. Please give
us this chance.
>>
Congress, give these
hard-working, responsible
Americans that chance.
>> [ Applause ]
>> Give them that chance.
>> Give them a chance.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
They need our help right now,
but more importantly, this
country needs them in the game.
That's why I have been asking
CEOs to give more long-term
unemployed workers a fair shot
at new jobs, a new chance to
support their families
. And in fact, this week, many
will come to the White House to
make that commitment real.
Tonight, I ask every business
leader in America to join us and
do the same because we are
stronger when America feels a
full team.
>> [ Applause ]
>> Of course, it's not enough to
train today's workforce. We
also have to prepare tomorrow's
workforce. I guarantee
-- by guaranteeing every child
access to world-class education.
>>
And Stephen Rodriguez could not
speak a word of English when he
moved to New York City at age
9. But last month, thanks to the
support of great teachers and
an innovative tutoring program,
he led a march of his classmates
through a crowd of cheering
parents and neighbors
from their high school to the
post office where they mailed
off the college applications
. And this son of a factory
worker just found out he's going
to college this fall.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Five years ago, we set out to
change the odds for all of our
kids.
We worked with lenders to
reform student loans and today,
more young people are earning
college degrees than ever
before.
Race to the top, with the help
of governors from both parties,
have help states raise
expectations and performance.
Teachers and principals in
schools from Tennessee to
Washington DC are making big
strides in preparing students
with the skills for the new
economy. Problem solving,
critical thinking, science,
technology, and generic, math.
And some of those changes are
hard. It requires everything for
more challenging curriculum and
more demanding parents to
better support for teachers. And
new ways to measure how well
our kids think, not how well
they can fill in a bubble on a
test. But, it is worth it. And
it is working.
The problem is, we're still not
reaching enough kids. And it
has to change.
One of the best investments we
can make in a child's life is
high-quality education.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Last year, I ask this Congress
to help states make high-quality
pre-K available to every
4-year-old. And as a parent as
well as a
President, I will repeat that
request tonight. But in the
meantime, 30 requests have
raised pre-K funding on their
own.  They know we can't wait.
So just as we work with states
to reform our schools,
this here, we will invest in
new partnerships with states and
communities across the country
in a race to the top for our
youngest children
. And as Congress decides what
it is going to do, I'm going to
pull together a coalition of
elected officials, business
leaders and philanthropists,
willing to help market access to
high-quality pre-K that they
need. It is
right for America, we need to
get this done.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Last year, I also pledged to
connect 99% of our students to
high-speed broadband over the
next four years.
Tonight, I can announce that
with the support of the FCC if
companies like Apple, Microsoft,
Sprint and Verizon,
we've got a down payment to
start connecting more than
15,000 schools
and 20 million students over
the next two years without
adding a time to the deficit.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
We are working to redesign high
schools and partner them with
colleges and employers that
offer the real-world world
education and heads on training
that can lead directly to a job
and career. We are shaking up
our system of higher education
to give parents more information
and colleges more incentives to
offer better value
so that no middle-class kids
priced out of a college
education.
We are offering millions, the
opportunity to cap their monthly
student loan payments to 10% of
their income.
And I want to work with
Congress to see how we can help
even more Americans who feel
trapped by student loan debt.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
And I'm reaching out to some of
America's leading foundations
and corporations on a new
initiative to help more young
men of color facing especially
tough odds to stay on track and
reach their full potential. The
bottom line is, Michele and I
want every child to have the
same chance this country gave
us.
We know our opportunity agenda
won't be complete and too many
young people entering the
workforce today will see the
American dream as an empty
promise.
Unless we also do more to make
sure our economy honors the
dignity of work
and hard work pays off for
everything go American.
>> Now today, women make up
about half of our workforce.
But,
they still make $.77 for every
dollar that a man earns. That is
wrong. And, in 2014, it is an
embarrassment. Women deserve
equal pay for equal work.
>> [ Applause ]
>> [ Cheering ] [ Applause ]
>>
Now, she deserves to have a
baby without sacrificing her
job.
>> A mother deserves a day off
to care for a sick child or a
sick parent without running into
hardship. And you know what? A
father does, too.
It is time to do away with
workplace policy that belongs in
a Mad Men
episode. This here, let's all
come together, Congress, the
White House,
businesses from Wall Street to
Main Street, to give every woman
the opportunity she deserves
because I believe when women
succeed, America succeeds.
>> [ Applause ]
>> [ Cheering ]
>>
Now,
women hold a majority of lower
wage jobs.
But, they are not the only ones
stifled by stagnant wages.
Americans understand that some
people will earn more money than
others,
and we don't resent those, who
by virtue of their efforts,
achieve incredible success. And
that is what America is all
about. But, Americans
overwhelmingly agreed that no
one who works full-time should
ever have to raise a family in
poverty.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
In the years since I asked this
Congress to raise the minimum
wage, five states have passed
laws to raise theirs. Many
businesses have done it on their
own.
Josh is here today with his
boss John Zarrella,
and Nick helps make the dough.
Only now, he makes more of it.
John just gave his employees
raise to $10 an hour,
and that is a decision that has
eased their financial stress
and boosted their more out.
Tonight, I ask more of America's
business leaders to follow
John's lead. Do what you can to
raise your employees wages.
>> P Mac -- [ Applause ]
>> It's good for the economy and
good for America.
To every mayor, governor, state
legislator in America, I say,
you don't have to wait for
Congress to act. Americans will
support you if you take this on.
And as a chief executive, I
intend to lead by example.
Profitable corporations like
Costco see higher wages as a
smart way to boost productivity
and reduce turnover. We should,
too.
In the coming weeks, I will
issue an executive order
requiring federal contractors to
pays their federal
contractors to raise their wage
wellies $10.10 an hour because
if you cook our troops meals or
wash the dishes, you should not
have to live in poverty.
>> [ Applause ]
>> Of course, to reach millions
more, Congress needs to get on
board. Today, the federal
minimum wage is worth about 20%
less than it was when Ronald
Reagan first stood here.
And Tom Harkin and George
Miller have a bill to fix that
by lifting the minimum wage to
$10.10. It's easy to remember.
This will help families, give
business customers with more
money to spend, it does not
involve any new bureaucratic
program. So, join the rest of
the country, say yes, give
America a raise.
>> [ Cheering ] [ Applause ]
>> Give them a raise.
>>
There are steps we can take to
help them least make ends meet.
And
if you are more effective at
reducing inequality and helping
families pull themselves up
through hard work than the
earned income tax credit. And
right now, it helps half of all
parents at some point. Think
about that. It helps about half
of all periods in America at
some point in their lives. But I
agree with Republicans like
Senator.  Rubio,
that it does not do enough for
single workers who don't have
kids. So, let's work together to
strengthen the credit, reward
works, help more Americans get
ahead.
Let's do more to help Americans
save for retirement. Today,
most workers don't have a
pension.
A Social Security check often
isn't enough on its own.
And while the stock market has
doubled over the last five
years, that doesn't help folks
that don't have 401(k)s. That's
why tomorrow, I'll direct the
treasury to create a new way for
working Americans to start
their own retirement.
MyIRA.
If a new savings bond that
encourages folks to build --
MyRA
guarantees a decent return with
no risk of losing what you put
in and if this Congress wants to
help, work with me to fix an
upside down
tax code that gives big breaks
to help the wealthy states, but
does little or nothing for metal
class Americans. Offer every
American access to an IRA
on the job so they can save
just like every American on this
chamber can. It's an important
investment every Americans make,
their home.
Send me legislation that
prevents taxpayers from putting
developer my housing crisis ever
again and keeps the dream of
homeownership alive for future
generations eared
>> [ Applause ]
>>
One last point on financial
security. For decades,
few things exposed hard-working
families to economic hardship.
More than a broken healthcare
system.
And in case you haven't heard,
we are in the process of fixing
that.
Now, a pre-existing condition
used to mean that somebody like
Amanda Shilling, a physician's
assessment and single mom from
Arizona, could not get health
insurance. But on January 1, she
got covered. The Mac [ Applause
]
>> On January 3, she felt a
sharp pain. On January 6, she
had emergency surgery. Just one
week earlier, Amanda said that
surgery would have meant they
Cropsey. That is what healthcare
reform is all about. The peace
of mind that if misfortune
strikes, you don't have to lose
everything. Already, because of
the
affordable care act, more than
3 million Americans under age 26
have gain coverage under their
parents plan.
More than 9 million Americans
have signed up for private
health insurance or Medicaid
coverage.
>> [ Applause ]
>> 9 million. And here's another
number. Zero.
Because of this new law, no
American, none, zero,
can ever again be dropped or
denied coverage for a
pre-existing condition like
asthma or back pain or cancer.
>> [ Cheering ] [ Applause ]
>>
No woman can ever be charged
more just because she is a
woman.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
And, we did all of this while
adding years to Medicare's
finances, keeping Medicare
premiums flat, and lowering
prescription costs for millions
of seniors.
Now, I do not expect to
convince my Republican friends
on the merits of this law.
>> [ Laughter ]
>> But,
I know that the American people
are not interested in
refighting old battles. So,
again, if you have specific
plans to cut costs, cover more
people, increased choice, tell
America what you do differently,
let's see if the numbers out
of. But, let's not have another
fortysomething votes to repeal a
law that is helping Americans
like Amanda.
>> [ Cheering ] [ Applause ]
>>
The first 40 were plenty.
We all owe it to the American
people to say what we are for,
not just what we are against.
And if you want to know the real
impact this has had, just talk
to the governor of Kentucky who
is here tonight. Now, Kentucky
is not the most liberal part of
the country.
That is not where I got my vote
totals. But, he is like a man
possessed when it comes to
covering his Commonwealth of
families. The neighbors and
friends, he says, are people we
shop and go to church with.
Farmers out on the tractor.
Grocery clerks
. They are people who go to work
every morning, praying they
don't get sick. No one deserves
to live that way.
>> Steve is right.
That is why tonight, I ask
every American who knows someone
without health insurance, to
help them get covered by March
31.
>> [ Applause ]
>> Help them get covered.
Moms, get on your kids to sign
up. Kids, call your mom and
walkers are the application.
It will give her some peace of
mind, plus, she will appreciate
hearing from you.
>> [ Laughter ]
>>
After all, that is the spirit
that has always move this nation
forward. It's a spirit of
citizenship. The recognition
that through hard work and
responsibility,
we can pursue our individual
dreams but still come together
as one American family to make
sure the next generation can
pursue it streams as well.
Citizenship means standing up
for everyone's right to vote.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Last year, part of the voting
rights act was weakened, but
conservative Republicans and
liberal Democrats are working
together to strengthen it. And
the bipartisan commission I
appointed, chaired by my
campaign lawyer and Governor.
Romney's campaign lawyer  came
together and have
offered reform so that no one
has to wait more than a
half-hour to vote. Let's support
these efforts.
It should be the power of our
vote, not the size of our bank
account that drives our
democracy.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Citizenship means standing up
for the lives that gun violence
steals from us each day.
I've seen the courage of
parents, students,
police officers all over the
country who say, we are not
afraid.
And I intend to keep trying,
with or without Congress to help
stop more tragedies from
entering innocent Americans in
our movie theaters or shopping
malls or schools like
Sandy
Hook.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
Citizenship demands a sense of
common purpose. Participation in
hard work of self-government.
And an obligation to serve our
communities.
And I know this chamber agrees
that few Americans give more to
their country than our diplomats
and the men and women of the
United States Armed Forces.
>> [ Applause ]
>> Thank you.
Tonight,
because of the extraordinary
troops and civilians who risk
and lay down their lives to keep
us free, the United States is
more secure. When I took office
nearly 180,000 Americans were
serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Today, all of our troops are
out of Iraq.
More than 60,000 of our troops
have already come home from
Afghanistan
. With Afghan forces now in the
league for their own security,
our troops have moved to a
support role
. Together with our allies, we
will complete our mission there
by the end of this year. And
America's longest war will
finally be over.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
After 2014,
we will support a unified
Afghanistan as it takes
responsibility for its own
future.
If the Afghan government signed
a security it rumored that we
have negotiated,
a small force of Americans
could remain in Afghanistan with
NATO allies to carry out
missions,
training and assisting Afghan
forces, and counterterrorism
operations to pursue any
remnants of Al Qaeda.
And while our relationship with
Afghanistan will change, one
thing will not.
I will resolve the terrorists
to launch an attack on our
country.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
The fact is, that danger
remains.
While we put that on the path
to defeat, as other affiliates
and extremist take root in other
parts of the world, in Yemen,
Somalia, Iraq, we have to keep
working with partners to disrupt
and disable those networks.
Inferior, we will support the
opposition that rejects the
agenda. Of terrorist networks.
Here at home, we will keep
strengthening our defense and
combat new threats like cyber
attacks.
And as we reform our defense
budget, we will have to keep
faith with our men and women in
uniform and invest in the
capabilities they need to
succeed in future missions.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
We have to remain vigilant.
But I strongly believe our
leadership and our security
cannot deep end on our
outstanding military alone.
As commander-in-chief, I have
used force when needed to
protect the American people. And
I will never hesitate to do so
as long as I hold this office.
But, I will not send our troops
into harm's way unless it is
truly necessary
, nor will I allow our sons and
daughters to be mired in
open-ended complex. We must
fight the battles that need to
be fought. Not those that
terrorist prefer to us.
Large-scale deployments that
drain our strength and may
ultimately these extremists.
So even as we actively and
aggressively pursue terrorist
networks
through more targeted efforts
and by building the capacity of
our foreign partners, America
must move on a per minute
war footing.
>>
[ Applause ] That's why I've
imposed prudent limits on the
use of drones.  For we will not
be safer
if people abroad believe we
strike within their countries
without regard for the
consequence.
That's why working with this
Congress, I will reform our
surveillance programs because
the vital work of our
intelligence community depends
on public confidence here and
abroad that privacy of ordinary
people is not being violated.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
And, with the Afghan war ended,
this needs to be the year that
Congress lifts the remaining
restrictions on detaining
transfers and we close the
prison at one time okay. -- At
Guantanamo Bay, because we
counterterrorism
I remain true to our
constitutional ideal and setting
an example for the rest of the
world. You see, in a world of
complex threats, our security,
our leadership depends on all
elements of our power. Including
strong and principled
diplomacy.
American diplomacy has rallied
more than 50 countries to
prevent nuclear materials from
falling into the wrong hands.
And allowed us to reduce our own
alliance on Cold War
stockpiles. American diplomacy,
backed by the threat of force
is why serious chemical weapons
are being illuminated --
eliminated.
>> [ Applause ]
>> And we will continue to work
with the international community
to usher in the future that
Syrian people deserve, a future
free of dictatorship, terror and
fear.
As we speak, American diplomacy
is supporting Israelis and
Palestinians
, as they engage in the
difficult but necessary talks to
end the conflict there. To
achieve dignity. And independent
states for Palestinians. And
lasting peace
for the secure state of Israel,
a Jewish state that knows
America will always be at their
side.
>> [ Applause ]
And it is American diplomacy
backed by pressure
that has halted the progress of
Iran's nuclear program and
rolled back part of the program
for the very first time in a
decade.
As we gather here tonight,
I Ron has begun to eliminate
its stockpile of higher levels
of enriched uranium. It's not
installing advanced centrifuges
. Unprecedented inspections help
the world verify every day that
I Ron is not building a bomb.
And with our allies and
partners, we are engaged in
negotiations to see if we can
peacefully achieve a goal we all
share. Preventing Iran from
obtaining a nuclear weapon.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
These negotiations will be
difficult. They may not succeed.
We are clear about our Iran's
support for representation like
Hezbollah, which
threatens our allies, and we
are clear about the mistrust
between our nations, Ms. trust
that cannot be wished away. But,
these negotiations don't rely
on trust. Any long-term deal we
agree to be based on verifiable
action that convinces us and the
international community that I
Ron is not building a nuclear
bomb.
If John F. Kennedy and Ronald
Reagan could negotiate with the
Soviet Union
, then surely, a strong and
confident America could
negotiate with less powerful
adversaries to date.
>> [ Applause ]
The sanctions that we put in
place help make this opportunity
possible. But, let me be clear.
If this Congress sends me a new
sanctions bill now
that threatens to derail the
talks, I will veto it.
For the sake of our national
security, we must give diplomacy
a chance to succeed.
>> [ Applause ]
>> If Iran's leaders do not
seize this opportunity, then
I'll be the first to call for
more sanctions.
And stand ready to exercise all
options to make sure I Ron does
not build a nuclear weapon. But
if I Ron's leaders to seize the
chance, and we will know soon
enough, then I Ron could take an
important
death to join the community of
nations and we will have
resolved one of the leading
security challenges of our time
without the risks. And finally,
let's remember that our
leadership is defined, not just
by our defense against threats,
but by the enormous
opportunities to do good and
promote understanding around the
globe. To forage greater
cooperation to expand new
markets, to free people from
fear and want. And no one
is better positioned to take
advantage of those opportunities
than America.
Our alliance with Europe
remains the strongest the world
has ever known. From Tunisia to
Burma
, we are supporting those who
are willing to do the hard work
of building democracy. In
Ukraine,
we stand for the principle that
all people have the right to
express themselves freely and
peacefully. And to have a say in
their country's future.
Across Africa, we are bringing
together businesses and
governments to double access to
electricity and help end extreme
poverty.
In the Americas, we are
building new types of Congress,
but we are also expanding
cultural and educational
exchanges during young people.
And we will continue to focus on
the Asia-Pacific where we
support our allies,
shape a future of greater
security and prosperity, and
extend a hand to those
devastated by disaster.
As we did in the Philippines
when our Marines and civilians
rushed to aid those battered by
a typhoon. And who were greeted
with words like, "we will never
forget your
kindness" and "God bless
America",
we do these things because they
help promote the inherent
dignity and equality of every
human being, regardless of race
or religion, creed or sexual
orientation.
Next week, the world will see
one expression on that
commitment and team USA marches
the red white and blue into the
Olympic Stadium and brings home
the gold.
>> [ Cheering ] [ Applause ]
>>
[ Cheering ]
My fellow Americans, no other
country in the world does what
we do
, on every issue. The world
turns to us
, not simply because of the size
of our economy or our military
might, but because the ideals we
stand for. And the burdens we
buried to advanced them.
No one knows this better than
those who serve in uniform.
As this time the board draws to
a close, a new generation of
heroes returns to civilian life.
We will keep slashing that
backlog so our veterans receive
the benefits they have earned
and our wounded warriors receive
healthcare, including the
mental health care that they
need.
>> [ Applause ]
>>
We will keep working to help
all of our veterans translate
their skills and leadership in
the jobs here at home,
and we will all continue to
join forces to honor and support
our remarkable military
families.
Let me tell you about one of
those families I have come to
know. I first met Cory Ramsburg,
a proud Army Ranger, at Omaha
Beach on the 65th anniversary of
D-Day. Along with some of his
fellow Rangers, he walked me
through the
program and ceremony and he was
a strong, impressive young man,
had an easy manner, sharp as a
tack. And we joked around and
took pictures and I told him to
stay in touch. A few months
later, on his 10th deployment,
Cory was nearly killed by a
massive roadside bomb in
Afghanistan.
His comrades found him in a
canal facedown, underwater,
shrapnel in his brain. For
months, he lay in a coma. And
the next time I met him in the
hospital, he couldn't speak. He
could barely move. Over the
years, he has endured dozens of
surgeries and procedures. Hours
of
ruling rehab every day. Even
now, Cory is still blind in one
eye. Still struggles on his left
side. But slowly, steadily
, with the support of caregivers
like his dad, Craig, and the
community around him, Cory has
grown stronger
. Day by day, he has learned to
speak again and stand again and
walk again
. And he is working toward the
day when he can serve his
country again.
>> My recovery has not been
easy, he says. Nothing in life
that is worth anything is easy.
Cory is here tonight, and like
the Army loves, like the America
he serves, Sergeant. first
class Cory Ramsburg  never gives
up and he does not quit.
>> [ Cheering ] [ Applause ]
[ Cheering ]
[ Cheering ]  [ Cheering ]
[ Applause ]
>> My fellow American
, my fellow Americans, the men
and women like Cory remind us
that America has never come easy
. Our freedom, our democracy has
never been easy.
Sometimes, we stumble. We make
mistakes, we get frustrated and
discouraged. But, for more than
200 years, we have put those
things aside. And placed our
collective shoulder to the wheel
of progress
, to create and build and expand
the possibilities of individual
achievement, to free other
nations from tyranny and fear,
to promote justice and fairness
and equality
under the law, so that the
words set to paper by our
founders are made real for every
citizen.
The America we want for our
kids
, a rising America where honest
work is plentiful and
communities are strong, for
prosperity is widely shared and
opportunity for all let us go as
far as our dreams and toil will
take us, none of it is easy.
But, if we work together, if we
summon what is best in us, The
Way, Cory summoned what is best
in him,
with our feet planted firmly in
today, but our eyes cast for
tomorrow, I know it is within
our reach.
Believe me. God bless you, and
God bless the United States of
America.
>> [ Applause ]
>> [ Cheering ]
>>
[ Applause ]
[ Captioners transitioning ]
What an honor it is for me to
be with you after the president
state of the union. Tonight we
honor America. A nation that has
witnessed the greatest rise of
freedom and opportunity our
world has ever seen. A nation
where we are not defined by our
limits but by our potential. A
nation where a girl who works at
the
McDonald's drive-through to help
pay for college can be with you
from either the United States
capital. But the most important
moments right now are not
happening here. They are not in
the Oval Office or in the House
chamber. They are in your homes,
kissing your kids
good night. Figuring out how to
pay the bills and getting ready
for tomorrow's doctors visit.
Waiting for to hear from those
you love serving in Afghanistan
or searching for that big job
interview.
After all,
we, the people can't have been
the foundation of America since
the earliest days, people from
all walks of life and from all
corners of the world. People who
come to America
because here know challenge is
too great and no dream too big.
That is the genius of America.
>> Tonight the president made
more promises that sound good
but won't actually solve the
problems facing Americans. We
want you to have a better life.
The president wants
that too. But we part ways when
it comes to how to make that
happen.
So tonight I would like to share
a more hopeful Republican
vision,
one that
empowers you, not the
government. It's one that
champions free markets and trust
people to make their own
decisions. Not a government that
decides for you. It helps
working families rise above the
limits of poverty
and protect our most vulnerable.
And it's one where Washington
plays by the same rules that you
do. It's a vision that is fair
and offers the promise of a
better future for every
American.
If you would have told me as a
little girl that I would one day
put my hand on the Bible and be
sworn in as the 200 woman to
these serving in the House of
Representatives, I would not
have thought it possible. I grew
up working on my family's
Orchard and kettle Falls a small
town in Washington
getting up before dawn to pick
apples. My dad drove a school
bus and my mom worked as a part
times a teacher. They taught me
to work hard, help others and
always dream for more. So
when I showed my for age animals
at the county fair, my parents
used to say to me, Kathy, you
need to say this money so you
can go to college one day. And
so I did. I saved. I
worked hard. And I became the
first in my family to graduate
from college. The chance to go
from my Washington to this one
was unexpected. I came to
Congress to help empower people.
Not politicians. To grow the
working middle class. Not
the government. And to ensure
that everyone in this country
can find a job. Because a job is
so much more than a paycheck.
It gives
us purpose. Dignity. And the
foundation to build a future. I
was single when I
was elected. But it wasn't long
before I met Brian, a retired
Navy commander, and now we have
three beautiful children, one
who was born just eight weeks
ago. Like all parents, we have
high hopes and dreams for our
children. But we also know what
it is like to face challenges.
Three days after our son was
born, we got news no parent
expects. Coal was diagnosed with
Down's syndrome. The doctors
told us he could have endless
complications, heart defects,
even early Alzheimer's. They
told us all
the problems. But when we looked
at our son, we saw only
possibilities. We sought a gift
from
God. And today, we see a
six-year-old boy who dances to
Bruce Springsteen, who reads
above grade level and who is the
best brother in the world. We
see all the things he
can do
. Not those he cannot. And Cole
and his sisters have only made
me more determined to see the
potential in every human life
that whether we are born with
an extra 21st chromosome or
without a dollar to our name, we
are not defined by our limits
but by our potential. Because
our mission, not only as
Republicans, but as Americans,
is to once again ensure that we
are not bound by where we come
from but empowered by what we
can become. That is
the gap Republicans are working
to close. It's a gap we all
face. Between where you are and
where you want to be. The
president talks a lot about
income
inequality. But the real gap we
face today is one of opportunity
and equality. And with this
administrations policies, that
gap has become far too wide. We
see
this gap growing every single
day. We see it in our neighbors
who are struggling to find jobs.
A husband, who is now working
just part-time. A child, who
dropped out of college because
she cannot afford tuition, or
parents who are outliving their
lives savings. Last month more
Americans stopped looking for a
job them
found one. Too many people are
falling further and further
behind. Because right now
the president policies are
making people's
lives harder. Republicans have
plans to close
the gap
, plans that will focus on jobs
first without more spending,
government bailouts, and red
tape. Every day we are working
to expand our economy. One a
manufacturing job, nursing
degree, and small business at a
time. We have plans to improve
our education and training
systems so you have the choice
to determine where your kids go
to school. So college
is affordable. And skilled
training is modernized.
And yes, it is time to honor our
history of
legal immigration. We are
working on a step-by-step
solution to immigration reform I
first securing our orders and
making sure America will always
attract
the best, brightest, and hardest
working from around the world.
And with too many Americans
living paycheck to paycheck, we
have solutions to help
you take home more of your pay
through lower taxes, cheaper
energy costs, and
affordable healthcare. Not long
ago, I got a letter from Betty
in Spokane who had hoped the
president health
care love would save her money.
But found out instead her
premiums were going
up nearly
$700 a month. We've all talked
to too many people who have
received cancellation notices
they did not expect. Or who can
no longer see the doctors they
always have. No. We should not
go back to the way things were.
But this law is
not working.
Republicans believe health care
choices should be yours, not
the government. And that whether
you are a boy with down
syndrome or a woman with breast
cancer, you can find coverage
and a doctor who will treat you.
So we hope the president will
join us
in a year of real action by
empowering people, not by making
their lives harder with
unprecedented spending, higher
taxes, and fewer jobs. As
Republicans, we advance these
plans every day because we
believe in a government that
trusts people that does not
limit where you finish because
of where you started. That is
what we stand for. It's for an
America that is every bit as
compassionate as it is
exceptional. If we are
successful, years from now our
children will say -- we rebuild
the American dream.
We build a working middle class
that could take in anyone and a
workforce that could take on
the world. Whether you are a
girl in kettle Falls or a boy
from Brooklyn, our children
should be able to say that we
close the gap. Our plan is one
that dreams big for everyone and
turns it back on no one. The
president said many things
tonight. But now I asked him to
listen to you. For the true
state of the union lies in your
hearts and in your
home. Tomorrow I will watch my
son Cole get on the school bus
and others will
wait in the doctors office or
interview for that first job.
Some of us will celebrate new
beginnings. Others will face
great challenges. But all of us
will wake up and do what is
uniquely American. We will look
forward to the balance potential
that lies ahead. We will
give thanks to the brave men and
women who have answered
America's call to freedom like
Sergeant.  Jacob has from
Spokane who recently gave his
life to protect all of ours. So
tonight I simply offer a prayer.
A prayer for Sergeant. Hess's
family ,
your family, and four hours
larger American family. That
with the guidance of God,
we may
prove ourselves worthy of his
blessings of life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness. For
when we embrace of these gifts,
we are each doing our part to
form a more perfect union. May
God guide you and our president
and may God continue to bless
the United States
of America.
>> [
Pause ]
>>
Good evening. I'm a senator
Mike Lee from
Utah. In
the few minutes I have tonight
I would like to speak especially
to those Americans who may feel
they've been forgotten by both
political parties, those
individuals and families who
work hard and play by the rules
and balance their budgets, honor
the Golden rule and do not
understand why their government
in Washington cannot do the
same. You are probably as
frustrated as I am about an
ever-growing government that
somehow thinks it's okay to lie
to spy on and even target its
own citizens. Many hard-working
Americans are discouraged and
wondering what, if anything, can
be done.
I think we need to do what
Americans have always done, come
together and press for positive
change.
Protesting against dysfunctional
government is a great American
tradition.
Going back to the original tea
party and Boston about 240
years ago
, Americans have a natural
instinct to stand up and speak
out when they know something is
grok wrong. In 1773 Americans
have simply had it with the
London-based national government
that had become too big, too
expensive, and far too
intrusive.
It's important to note,
however, that had the founding
generation stopped at just
protesting against the kind of
government Americans did not
want, the Boston tea party would
have been a little more than a
footnote in history.
At most it would have been
remembered as just one more
futile protest against an
abusive national government.
Fortunately for all of us, those
early patriots moved on from
Boston. And moved hast their
protest against the government
they did not want. They
marched forward on a road toward
the kind of government they
did want.
It took them 14 long years to
get from Boston to Philadelphia,
where they created, with our
Constitution, the kind of
government they did want. In
America, the test of any
political movement is not what
that movement is against but
what it is for. The founders
made
a point at Boston Harbor. But
they made history in
Philadelphia's Independence
Hall. Unfortunately in
recent years, we've had no
choice but to engage in a number
of protest. Against our
current president Washington
centered agenda. As Americans,
we must always be willing to
fight the Boston type battles.
Boldly
calling out bad policy whenever
we see. But we must do so with
an eye toward Philadelphia,
maintaining a positive focus on
the kind of nation we want to be
and
become. Today Americans know in
their heart that something is
wrong. Much of what is wrong
related to the
sense that the American dream is
falling out of reach for far
too many
of us.
We are facing and inequality
crisis, one to which the
president has paid a lipservice
but seems uninterested in truly
confronting or correcting. This
inequality crisis
presents itself in three
principal forms. Immobility
among
the poor,
who are being trapped in
poverty by big government
programs, insecurity and the
middle class, where families are
struggling just to get ahead
and they cannot seem to do much
more than that, and cronies have
lived at the top where
political and economic insiders
twist the immense power of the
federal government to profit at
the expense of everyone else. To
be fair, President. Obama and
his party  did not create all of
these
problems. The Republican
establishment in Washington can
be just as out of touch as the
Democratic establishment.
However, tonight, as on numerous
occasions of late, the
president lost
the rhetoric ignored the fact
that his administration
continues to leave poor and
middle-class families further
behind while he and his allies
insist that the real
problem is inequality itself.
But where does this new
inequality come from?
From government. Every time it
takes rights and opportunities
away from the American people
and gives them instead
to politicians, bureaucrats, and
special interest. Inequality.
Real
inequality is trapping poor
children in failing schools
to benefit bureaucrats and union
bosses. It's penalizing low
income parents for getting
married or getting better jobs.
It's
guaranteeing insurance
companies taxpayer bailouts if
Obamacare cuts into their
profits. Inequality is blocking
thousands of middle-class jobs
in the energy industry as a
favor to partisan donors and
radical environmental activist.
Inequality is denied but viable
unborn children any protection
under the
law while
adjusting unsanitary late-term
abortion clinics from basic
safety standards. It's denying
citizens their right to define
marriage in their states as
traditionally or as broadly as
their diverse values
dictate. It's the federal
government turning rural
communities, especially in the
West by controlling and
mismanaging public
lands. It's changing the laws
without congressional approval
and spying on American citizens
without constitutional
authority. And of course,
Obamacare. All by itself
is an inequality Godzilla that
has robbed working families of
their insurance, their doctors,
their wages and their jobs. Many
Americans are now seeing why
some of us fought so hard to
stop this train wreck over the
last four years. Government
driven inequality is the
reason why as hard-working
American families across the
company struggled to make
ends meet. Six of the 10
wealthiest counties in America
are now suburbs of Washington
DC. Throughout the last five
years, President. Obama has
promised  an economy for the
middle class. But all he has
delivered is an economy from the
middlemen. Tonight his party
cheered as he asked for more of
the same, as if the solution to
inequality were -- well,
more inequality. Critics might
push back and argue that my own
party has been part of
the problem. Too often joining
the Democrats to rig our economy
to benefit of the
well-connected at the expense of
the disconnected. I know
because I am one of those
critics. But I am speaking to
you tonight because I think
maybe, just maybe, that is
finally starting
to change. As a nation, we are
once again at a critical turning
point. Now, as in 1773,
Americans have had it with our
out of touch national
government. But if all we do
is protest, our Boston tea party
moment will occupy little more
than a footnote in our history.
Hopefully
our leaders, reformers and
citizens, will join the journey
from Boston to
Philadelphia from the test to
progress. Together we can march
forward and take the road that
leads to the kind of government
we do want. We have a new
generation of leaders in
Washington, with positive and
innovative ideas. Thoughtful
policy reforms as my friend
tended -- Senator. Ted Cruz says
makes BC listen. Reforms to
help poor families work
their way
into the middle class and to
help middle class families get
ahead and to level the playing
field and put corporate and
political insiders back to work
for the rest of us. Conservative
reformers like Senator. Marco
Rubio, commerce meant Paul Ryan,
and
Congressman  Jim Jordan are
working on new welfare reform
ideas to help underprivileged
families
escape poverty. Senator. rand
Paul and I are working with some
of the most liberal Democrats
in Congress  to reform the
criminal justice system and to
help keep violent predators
behind bars while
creating opportunities for
nonviolent offenders to return
to the families and
neighborhoods that so
desperately
need them. Senator. John cordon
has legislation that would
empower states to
impose
K through 12 education
throughout the country. Senator.
Tim Scott has reforms to
improve our job training
programs and I've introduced a
bill to modernize higher
education, making it more
accessible and more affordable
for lower income and non-
traditional student. Congressman
Tom Grace has a transportation
reform bill to ensure that our
infrastructure dollars are
invested in roads and bridges
and not wasted on bureaucrats
and special
interest. Congressman Mike
Pompeo introduced a bill to and
all federal subsidies for the
energy
industry. And other as a working
not proposals to do the same
for every industry know that
business profits are one from
customers and not true political
connections. After all, if we
are
going to reform welfare, we
really should start with
corporate welfare. One of the
that should directly help you
and your family is the bill I
have introduced to simplify the
tax code and provide relief from
the hidden double tax that
Washington currently imposes on
working parents. Especially moms
and dads in the
middle class. When it comes to
health care, we know the best
way to repeal Obamacare is to go
deliver better solutions. We
can't just return to the old
system. Healthcare policy used
to give too much power to
insurance companies. Obamacare
now gives far too much power to
government. We
know that real reform will put
healthcare dollars and decisions
where they belong in the hands
of patients and families and
their doctors and nurses. So
reformers in both the House and
the Senate are hard at work
developing new patient Center
reforms to control
healthcare costs, ensure access
to affordable coverage for all
Americans, and provide extra
help for the poor and the sick.
All
of these proposals, within this
new conservative reform agenda,
along with many more to come,
what Mark the road to
Philadelphia. These principles
and these policies will work.
And will put Americans back to
work. Not just by cutting big
government but
by fixing
broken government. Not just by
making government smaller but by
promoting bigger citizens,
stronger families, and more
heroic communities. Our goal
should be an America where
everyone has a fair chance to
pursue happiness and find it.
That is what it looks like when
protest grows
into reform.
So if you are one of those
Americans that big government is
leaving behind, if you work
hard, play by the rules, and
teacher kids to do the same, I
want you to know that your
family will not be forgotten
anymore. This new generation
of reformist still has a long
way to go to win over our party
in Washington and even further
to go to earn
your trust. I'm confident that
our best days as a nation are
ahead of us, not because of
government, but because within
America's diverse society
of individuals, and families and
neighborhoods and churches and
businesses and
communities, freedom does not
mean you are on your own.
Freedom means we are all in this
together. I invite you to join
us on the road to a more
prosperous America. Together we
can create the kind of
government we do want and the
kind of nation our children and
grandchildren deserve. Thank you
very much for your time. Good
night and